In this video we'll add the jump animation to our script and we'll want to be able to move the character
around our game level.
But to do that we're going to need a couple of things we're going to need gravity.
We're going to need to know when he's on the ground and we're going to need Well a ground.
So let's begin with the ground.
I'm going to come over here to the hierarchy and right click and choose 3-D object and plane and I'm
going to set the plane to the zero position for X Y and Z.
So now we know that he is on the ground.
Now what we need is the ability to push down on the ground to push down.
So he has gravity what we need to do is go back into the script and create that.
So what let's do is let's go back into the script and to create gravity.
Let's go down here into the update function below our if else statements and let's say we want to move
that character controller.
We want to create.
We're going to need to create a variable or call it move direction and we'll multiply that by what's
called time delta time which if we wanted to we could highlight time Dot delta time and we can press
control or command apostrophe on the keyboard and we can bring up the scripting documentation for unity.
Now here is time delta time.
So what we're doing is we're using this function to make our game frame rate independent.
In other words we're basing the movement on time rather than on the frame rate.
And that's good for things like gravity because the frame rate can fluctuate depending on what's going
on in the game and how good the processor is on the computer or console or whatever.
So we don't want to base things like gravity on something that could fluctuate.
So that's why we use time delta time.
So let's go back here and bring up our script again.
I need to close off the parentheses at a semi-colon and also let's take that variable that we're going
to create called Move direction and let's say that it should push down in the Y.
Negative equals which is the same as minus something equals.
And I'll take I'll use gravity times time delta time as we go semi-colon at the end.
Now of course you can see that we've got a few variables that we need to deal with here.
I've created a gravity variable and I've created a moved direction and we need to put those up here.
So unity knows what we're doing.
So let's come up here and let's first create that move direction I'm going to create a private variable
and I'm going to make it be of type vector 3 and of course we'll call it move direction like we did
down there.
And we'll set this to vector's 3 0
and gravity we need to deal with that too we'll create a public float variable called gravity and creating
it as a public variable will allow us to modify it in the inspector on the fly.
We'll go ahead and call this 20 point zero and we'll put an F there because it's a float and I'll save.
So now you can see these aren't read anymore.
That's good.
All right so let's go back to our game now.
Make sure there's no errors happening here.
If I hit play.
Not much happens.
You can't see any difference really.
But if I took this plane and moved it up and hit play now he'd drop.
So you can see that he's being pushed on by that gravity.
And if I select the character over here you can see that because we created the gravity as a public
variable we now have access to it over here in the inspector.
All right so let me bring that plane back down here.
Let me select that and type zero in the y.
Ok so now we know he's being pushed down onto the ground and when he's touching the ground he's going
to be grounded and we need to know whether he's grounded or not.
When he jumps I don't want to have the player be able to have him jump in while he's in the air hit
and jump again and have him continue going up indefinitely.
I just want him to be able to jump once and while he's in the air you can't jump again until he hits
the ground again.
So what we need to know are what unity needs to know is when he's grounded.
So let's go back over to the script and let's just create that bit of code.
So I'm going to come in here to the update and in front of input that key I'm going to type controller.
That's our character controller is grounded.
And so what this says is if the character controller is grounded is on the ground and you're pushing
the up key then transition to the run animation clip.
Otherwise else if the controller is grounded and you are not pushing on the up then switch back to the
idle which is zero.
All right.
So the next thing we should work on is the jump.
And what we're going to need is a couple lines here.
That's similar to our IF statement that basically says if the space bar is pushed down then change the
animation parameter too.
But in addition we're also going to need to give it force upward a jump force.
So let's begin on that.
I'm going to go ahead and just right here below this if statement I'm going to begin by saying if we've
got input coming in from a button that unity calls jump which is the spacebar.
And if the controller is grounded once again then what we need to do is set that animator control or
variable
which is the integer that we called animation parameter.
I'm just going to copy this and put this down here and change the zero to where we go.
So now what we've got is if we push down the spacebar and the controller is on the ground then change
the animation parameter in the animator controller to two.
Now we've got a variable up here called moved direction and you can see we're using that to create a
bit of gravity what we can do for just a moment when the space bar is pushed as we can say that that
move direction in the y axis is going to be equal to a variable that we'll call jump force and it's
read here because we haven't defined it.
So we'll come back up to the variables area and we'll create a public float.
Call it junk force and give it some sort of value.
Let's give it 10 for now and see how that works.
We'll be able to adjust this in the inspector on the fly.
So now we've got our variable force defined in our script.
Well let's test it out.
Let's see if it works I'm going to save this script I'm going to go back to unity and let's just hit
play.
All right.
So I hit the up arrow.
He runs I let up off of it.
He goes back to idle.
I hit the jump or the spacebar and he goes up but he doesn't change to his jump.
Animation up there it is.
He didn't he didn't get high enough.
So here let me turn the game off for just a minute let me move the camera back so we can kind of see
what's going on.
Or better yet you know what let's do instead of moving the camera back let's parent the camera to the
character so it goes up when he goes out.
So I'll just take the camera here.
In the hierarchy and just click and drag it and drag it right on the character and drop it there.
Now it's a part of these child objects.
Underneath that main character object.
So if we hit play and now we hit the spacebar it will go up.
You can see he's just he's not quite there he is kind of.
So let's take a look at this what I'm going to do is go back to the animator and here's our transitions
for the jump just to make things easy.
I'm going to take this transition from the idle to the jump and I'm going to turn off exit time.
So there really is no time between the idle and the jump and I'm going to do that.
Back to the idle as well I'll just turn off exit time here and I'll save and let's give that another
try.
I'll hit play where he goes.
So now he transitions to that jump.
Animation a little quicker.
All right.
So now we've got our idol our jump and our run animations set up so we can trigger them through keyboard
events.
So in the next video what we'll do is we'll set up a speed variable and a turn variable and we'll get
him moving around the scene as well.
So stay tuned for that.
I'll see you then.